# Automatic name mangling test generation

## TL;DR

Run `dmd -J. -run generate_tests.d` from this directory.

For windows users you might need to have a look at [this article](http://wiki.dlang.org/Installing_DMD_on_64-bit_Windows_7_(COFF-compatible)).

It will generate a file (eg. **cpp_mangling_test_linux_64.d**) file that you can then add
to the **test/compilable** folder.

## Test templates

They are defined in `name_mangling.tests`.

This file contains test templates each of them are separated from each other by a commented line of dashes like this :
```
// -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

### Tags

The test template is defined by a set of unordered tags of the form `// <TAG>:`.

* `DESCRIPTION:` provide a description for this template. It's useful to find the template from the autogenerated code.
* `NAMESPACE:` (optional) D disallows multiple identical extern C++ namespace in a single file so tests have to be grouped by extern(C++) namespaces. The namespace is expressed as a d module. eg. `// NAMESPACE: a.b.c` will generate the test code into three nested namespaces.
* `CPP:` the cpp code template to be instanciated.
* `D_SYMBOL:` the d code template of the symbol to test.  This is used to generate 
```
static assert(<D_SYMBOL>.mangleof == <AUTOGENERATED>);
```
* `D:` the d code template to be instanciated.

### Code templates

In this cpp template snippet, `foo` is a variable.
```
void |foo|() {}
```

The generator will instanciate this template and replace it by `foo_<id>_`. This allows to match the mangled name in the object file back to the generated cpp and d code. This also allows to have a single file to compile (all symbols are different) and speeds up the process.

### The uppercased variables

The variables that are more than one character and all uppercased are special. They refer to `cpp2d` files in this directory.

A `cpp2d` file defines a set of translations from c++ to d, as a result the test template will be instanciated many times, once for each line in the file.

This allows to instanciate a particular template with all basic types for instance.
