.TH DMD 1 "2011-02-22" "Digital Mars" "Digital Mars D"
.SH NAME
dmd \- Digital Mars D2.x Compiler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dmd \fIfiles\fR ... [ \fI-switch\fR ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dmd
Compiles source code written in the D programming language.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "file, file.d, file.htm, file.html"
D source files to compile
.IP file.di
D interface files
.IP file.o  
Object files to link in
.IP file.a
Library files to link in
.IP @cmdfile
A file to read more command-line arguments from,
which may contain # single-line comments
.IP -c
Compile only, do not link
.IP -cov
Include code coverage analysis
.IP -D
Generate documentation
.IP -Dd\fIdocdir\fR
Write documentation file to
.I docdir
directory
.IP -Df\fIfilename\fR
Write documentation file to
.I filename
.IP -d
Silently allow deprecated features.
.IP -dw
Show use of deprecated features as warnings (default).
.IP -de
Show use of deprecated features as errors (halt compilation).
.IP -debug
Compile in debug code
.IP -debug=\fIlevel\fR
Compile in debug code <=
.I level
.IP -debug=\fIident\fR
Compile in debug code identified by
.I ident
.IP -debuglib=\fIname\fR
Set the symbolic debug library to
.I name
.IP -defaultlib=\fIname\fR
Set the default library to
.I name
.IP -deps=\fIfilename\fR
Write module dependencies to
.I filename
.IP -fPIC
Generate position independent code.
.IP -g
Add symbolic debug info.
.IP -gc
Add symbolic debug info in C format (for older
\fBgdb\fR's.)
.IP -gs
Always emit stack frame.
.IP -H
Generate D interface file.
.IP -Hd\fIdir\fR
Write D interface file to
.I dir
directory.
.IP -Hf\fIfilename\fR
Write D interface file to
.I filename
.IP --help
Print help
.IP -I\fIpath\fR
Where to look for imports.
.I path
is a : separated list of paths. Multiple
.B -I
s can be used, and the paths are searched in the same
order.
.IP -ignore
Ignore unsupported pragmas
.IP -inline
Inline expand functions
.IP -J\fIpath\fR
Where to look for string imports.
.I path
is a : separated list of paths. Multiple
.B -J
s can be used, and the paths are searched in the same
order.
.IP -L\fIlinkerflag\fR
Pass
.I linkerflag
to the linker, for example, -M
.IP -lib
Generate a library rather than object files
.IP -man
Open web browser on manual page
.IP -map
Generate linker .map file
.IP -O
Optimize
.IP -o-
Suppress generation of object file
.IP -od\fIobjdir\fR
write object files relative to directory
.I objdir
instead of the current directory
.IP -of\fIfilename\fR
set output file name to
.I filename
in the output directory
.IP -op
normally the path for
.B .d
source files is stripped off when generating an object file
name.
.B -op
will leave it on.
.IP -profile
Profile the runtime performance of the generated code
.IP -property
Enforce property syntax
.IP -quiet
Suppress non-essential compiler messages
.IP -release
Compile release version
.IP "-run \fIsrcfile args...\fR"
Compile, link, and run the program
.I srcfile
with the rest of the command line, \fI args...\fR, as the
arguments to the program. No .o or executable file is left
behind.
.IP -unittest
Compile in unittest code
.IP -v
verbose
.IP -version=\fIlevel\fR
compile in version code >=
.I level
.IP -version=\fIident\fR
compile in version code identified by
.I ident
.IP -vtls
List all variables going into thread local storage
.IP -w
Enable warnings
.IP -wi
Enable informational warnings
.IP -m32
Compile to 32 bit code.
.IP -m64
Compile to 64 bit code.
.IP -X
Generate JSON file.
.IP -Xf\fIfilename\fR
Write JSON file to 
.I filename
.SH LINKING
Linking is done directly by the
.B dmd
compiler after a successful compile. To prevent
.B dmd
from running the linker, use the
.B -c
switch.
.PP
The actual linking is done by running \fBgcc\fR.
This ensures compatibility with modules compiled with
\fBgcc\fR.
.SH FILES
.I /etc/dmd.conf
dmd will look for the initialization file
.I dmd.conf
in the directory \fI/etc\fR.
If found, environment variable settings in the file will
override any existing settings.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The D compiler dmd uses the following environment
variables:
.IP DFLAGS 10
The value of
.B DFLAGS
is treated as if it were appended on the command line to
\fBdmd\fR.
.SH BUGS
.B -g
is only implemented for line numbers, not local symbols,
because I haven't figured out how to do it yet.
.B gdb
still works, though, at the global symbol level.
.PP
The code generator output has not been tuned yet, so it can
be bloated.
.PP
Shared libraries cannot be generated.
.PP
The exception handling is not compatible with the way
.B g++
does it. I don't know if this is an issue or not.
.PP
The compiler sometimes gets the line number wrong on an error.
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (c) 1999-2016 by Digital Mars written by Walter Bright
.SH "ONLINE DOCUMENTATION"
.UR http://www.digitalmars.com/d/index.html
http://www.digitalmars.com/d/index.html
.UE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dmd.conf (5)
.BR rdmd (1)
.BR dumpobj (1)
.BR obj2asm (1)
.BR gcc (1)
